# Population vs Sample
A `population` data set contains all members of a specified group(the entire list of possible data values). _Example_: The population may be "ALL people living in the US." The numbers we've obtained when using a population are called `parameters`.
s
A `sample` data set contains a part, or a subset of a population. The size of a sample is always less thatn size of the population from which it is taken. Example: The sample may be "SOME people living in the US."


# Types of Data
When working with statistics, it's important to recognize the different types of data: numerical (discrete and continous), categorical and ordinal. Data are the actual pieces of information that you collect through your study. For example, if you ask five of your friends how many pets they own, they might give you the following data : 0, 2, 1, 4, 18 (The fifth friend might count each of her aquarium fish as a separate pet). Not all data are numbers; let's say you also record the gender of each of your friends, getting the following data: male, male, female, male, female.
Most data fall into one of two groups: numerical or categorial
- **Numerical data** These data have meaning as a measurement, such as person's height, weight, IQ or blood pressure; or they're a count, such as the number of stock shares a person owns, how many teeth a dog has, or how many pages you can read of your favrite book before you fall asleep.(Statisticians also called numerical data quantitative data). Numerical data can be further broken into two types: discrete and continous.
	* __Discreate data__ represent items can be counted; they take on possible values that can be list out. The list of possible values may be fixed (also called finite); or it may go from 0, 1, 2, on to infinity(making it countably infinite). For example,  the number of flips needed to get 100 heads takes on values from 100(the fatest scenarion) on up to infinity (if you neve get to that 100th heads). It is possible values are listed as 100, 101, 102, 103,....(represent the countably infinite case).
	* __Continous data__ represent measurement; their possible values cannot be counted and can only be described using intervals on the real number line. For example, the exact amount of gas purchased at the pump for cars with 20-gallon tanks would be continous data from 0 gallons to 20 gallons, represented by interval [0, 20], inclusive. You might pump 8.40 gallons,or 8.41, or 8.414863 gallons, or any possible number from 0 to 20. In this way, continuous data can be thought of as being uncountably infinite. For ease of recordkeeping, statisticians usually pick some point in the number to round off. 
- **Categorical data**: Categorical data represent characteristics such as a person gender's martial status, home town, or the type of movies they like. Categorical data can be taken on numerical values (such as "1" indicating male and "2" indicating female), but those numbers don't have mathematical meaning. You couldn't add them together, for example. (Other names for categorical data are qualitative data or Yes/No data).
-  **Oridnal Data** mixes numerical and categorical data. The data fall into categories, but the numbers placed on the categories having meaning. For example, rating a restaurant on a scale from 0(lowest) to 4(highest) stars gives ordinal data. Ordinal data are often treated as categorical, where the groups are ordered when graphs and chart are made. However, unlike categorical data the number do have mathematical meaning. For example if you survey 100 people and ask them to rate a restaurant on a scale from 0 to 4, taking the average of the 100 response will have meaning. This would not be the case with categorical data.



